Listen to BBC Radio from the command line.

Terminal - Listen to BBC Radio from the command line.
bbcradio() { local s;echo "Select a station:";select s in 1 1x 2 3 4 5 6 7
"Asian Network an" "Nations & Local lcl";do break;done;s=($s);mplayer
-playlist "http://www.bbc.co.uk/radio/listen/live/r"${s[@]: -1}".asx";}

User: eightmillion
Listen to BBC Radio from the command line.

This command lets you select from 10 different BBC stations. When one is
chosen, it streams it with mplayer.

Requires: mplayer with wma support.

Nice bash function! Thanks for share it.

Comment by danpos 47 weeks and 4 days ago

I was not familiar with the bash http://ss64.com/bash/select.html
command... Do other shells support it?

Comment by axelabs 47 weeks and 3 days ago

As far as I'm aware, the only other shell that supports the select
statement is ksh. Tcsh, csh, ash, dash, sash, fish, and sh do not.

Comment by eightmillion 47 weeks and 3 days ago

Does anyone know how I can make this an alias command? I tried alias
radio=`...command...` but it doesn't work.

Comment by diggmc 47 weeks and 3 days ago

@axelabs: zsh also supports select. @diggmc: Quoting can be a challenge,
try:

alias zzz='echo "Select a station:";select s in 1 1x 2 3 4 5 6 7 "Asian
Network an" "Nations & Local lcl";do break;done;echo mplayer -playlist
"http://www.bbc.co.uk/radio/listen/live/r"$(echo "$s"|awk '\''{print
$NF}'\'')".asx"'

@eightmillion: You don't need awk, you can do:

bbcradio() { local s;echo "Select a station:";select s in 1 1x 2 3 4 5 6 7
"Asian Network an" "Nations & Local lcl";do break;done; s=($s); s=${s[@]:
-1}; $mplayer -playlist
"http://www.bbc.co.uk/radio/listen/live/r"$s".asx";}
Comment by dennisw 47 weeks and 3 days ago

I meant to edit that "zzz" and change it to "radio". Oops.

Comment by dennisw 47 weeks and 3 days ago

Thanks Dennis. Using an array there is a great idea.

Comment by eightmillion 47 weeks and 3 days ago

I don't know why but it does not work for me... I'm using the gnome
terminal and I've installed mplayer. I seems so nice to listen to the
radio from the terminal... snif

Comment by Lepirate 47 weeks and 2 days ago

a full listing of BBC radio channels is available here :

http://bbcstreams.com/

-- thadiyan

Comment by thadiyan 47 weeks and 1 day ago

very good, I got a radio, thanks

Comment by twfcc 47 weeks ago

This doesn't work for me. Do you just paste it as is? I get the prompt
after pressing enter.

Comment by Buzzcp 45 weeks and 3 days ago

Buzzcp, it's a function, so you have to call it after you define it (which
is what this submission does). After you enter it in, you just have to
enter "bbcradio" in your shell to listen. If you want to always have the
command available, you'll need to add the function to your .bashrc file in
your home directory.

Comment by eightmillion 45 weeks and 2 days ago

@dennisw: Quoting can be a challenge, try:

alias zzz='echo "Select a station:";select s in 1 1x 2 3 4 5 6 7 "Asian
Network an" "Nations & Local lcl";do break;done;echo mplayer -playlist "

Sorry for the late response.

Thank You.

Comment by diggmc 44 weeks and 3 days ago

